VPC Flow Logs:
==============

	VPC Flow Logs allow you to capture IP traffic information in-and-out of Network Interface within you VPC.

	Flow Logs can be created for

		1. VPC
		2. Subnets
		3. Network Interface

	All log data is stored using Amazon CloudWatch Logs
	After a Flow Log is created it can be reviewed in details within CloudWatch Logs.


	<version> <account-id> <interface-id> <srcaddr> <dstaddr> <dstport> <protocol> <packets> <bytes> <start> <end> <action> <log-status>

	Version => The VPC Flow Logs Version
	account-id => The AWS account ID for the flow log.
	interface-id => The Id of the network interface for which the traffic is recorded.
	srcaddr => The source IPv4 or IPv6 address.(The IPv4 address of the network interface is always its private IPv4 address.
	dstaddr => The destination IPv4 or IPv6 address. The IPv4 address of the network interface is always its private IPv4 address.
	srcport => The source port of the traffic
	dstport => The desination port of the traffic
	protocol => The IANA protocol number of the traffic(see Assigned Internet Protocol Number)
	packets => The number of packets transferred during the capture window.
	bytes => The number of bytes transferred during the capture window.
	start => The time in Unix second, start of the capture window.
	end => The time in Unix second, end of the capture window.
	action => The action associated with the traffic:
		ACCEPT: The recorded traffice was permitted by the secutity groups or network ACLs.
		REJECT The recorded traffice was not permitted by the security groups or network ACLS.

	log-status: The logging status of the flow logs.

		OK => Data is logging normally to the chosen destinations.
		NODATA => There was no network traffic to or from the network interface during the capture window.
		SKIPDATA => Some flow log records were skipped during the capture window. This may be because of an internel capacity constraint, or an internal error.


	Cheat Sheet:
	=============


		1. VPC Flow logs monitor the in-and-out traffic of your Network Interface within your VPC.
		2. You can turn on Flow Logs at the VPC, Subnet or Networl Interface Level.
		3. VPC FLow logs cannot be tagged like other AWS resources.
		4. YOu cannot change the configuration of the flow log after its created.
		5. YOu cannot enable flow logs for VPCs which are perred with your VPC unless it is in the same account.
		6. VPC flow Logs can be delivered to an S3 or Cloudwatch Logs
		7. VPV FLow logs contains the source and destination IP addresses.
		8. Some instances traffice is not monitored.
			a. Instance traffic generated by contacting AWS DNS servers.
			b. Windows license activation traffice from instances.
			c. Traffie to and from the instance metadata address.
			d. DHCP Traffic
			e. Any traffic to the reserved IP address of the default VPC router.
